# Linking-data-in-Tableau
This repository shows how I made and visualized JOINS in Tableau.

# About the project 
In this project i reviewed a scenerio, linking different data sources in Tableau, created visualizations using multiple datasets, visualized comparisons and combined data. I created a visualization that shows the co2 emisssion per capita for each country from 2000-2011. I provided a visual presentation that not only allows someone to visually compare co2 emission but also provides information about each country's population, Gdp and energy use.

# Dataset
The project contains Co2 dataset with 8 fields that includes co2 data cleaned, co2(kt)pivoted, co2(kt)raw data and others, Energy dataset of 3 fields that includes country, year and energy use, A total population dataset of 3 fields that includes country, year and total popolation, lastly, Gdp total dataset of 3 fields that includes country, year and current gdp. The datasets includes emission for each country between the years 1960-2011. The links to the datasets are below. When you open the dataset below, you will immediately see the About page load with a single URL code at the top,please navigate to the bottom of the document and you can access all the raw and cleaned co2 data by clicking on different sheets.
# https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LwGHDgJkXSm8b0ziSDyC8pQGqjYVGpX9mAEVPs2KQgY/template/preview
# https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C3tnheC5Qd8deHaSMNjWLZPApLwaGQkpx-Sv-1mDwv0/template/preview
# https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yfbxSmFOUhH1FHoxYpOl3ir982HA_lsPchLAt60xbss/template/preview
# https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WbrxXDLKxAxDpwNSAQg2PdIEbtnjGwGe3bPHyCN7GlM/template/preview

# Description
Logged into my Tableau profile, created a viz and uploaded all 4 dataset then proceeded to make connections with JOINS. I loaded the first dataset which is the co2 dataset, dropped the co2 data cleaned in the field which i will be working with, opened it in order to make a table as i will be creating Joins. I loaded the second dataset i will be working with which is the energy dataset and dropped it in the field across the co2 cleaned dataset, from the pop up window i selected the data i will be needing which is Year from the co2 data cleaned and Year1 from the energy data set and added another clause on both sides which are country name and country. Viewed my dataset, changed the data type of year AND year1 to 'date'. I joined the remaining 2 dataset, gdp total and total population, same way as the energy data set. changed their year datatype to 'date' before adding the country clause so as not to create any problems when creating visualizations. Changed some measurement values like data type for columns that were listed as strings into numbers, reviewwd the dataset and created a visualization. For the visualization in sheet1, i loaded the country name under co2 data cleaned in the detail square, took the co2 per capita to color to edit the colors in such a way that the color changes as emission goes up so i picked the red-green diverging and checked the stepped color and reversed. I checked the start and end boxes and entered the rounded values of the lowest and largest co2 per capita emission in the start and end boxes in order to notice color contrast as it starts to change. I also took the Year under co2 data cleaned to filter area to set the year i want and make them visible for selection and viewing.

# Summary
I successfully linked 4 dataset together using Tableau and created a visualization of the co2 emission per capita of each country from 2000-2011 with country's population, gdp and energy use and from the visualization of all the years combined, The United states has the largest co2 emission per capita (metric tons) followed by Canada and Russia Federation then you have countries like Congo, Niger, Chad, Sudan with the lowest co2 emssion per capita (metric tons). You can also check for largest and lowest country co2 emission per year by just unchecking the 'all' box and checking the year of choice. From the link below you can view the data visualization.
# https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/paulet.echetama
